---
id: "2020-11-16-etc-cooperative-q3-2020-transparency-report"
title: "ETC Cooperative Q3 2020 Transparency Report"
author: Bob Summerwill
featuredImage: transparency.png
tags: [governance]
---

We are pleased to announce the release of the
[ETC Cooperative 2020 Q3 Transparency Report](/ETC-Coop-Q3-2020-Transparency-Report.pdf).

The ETC Cooperative publishes transparency reports every quarter (see [Q1](/ETC-Coop-Q1-2020-Transparency-Report.pdf) and [Q2](/ETC-Coop-Q2-2020-Board-Package.pdf)) and shorter monthly board updates (see [April](/ETC-Coop-Board-Package-April-2020.pdf), [May](/ETC-Coop-Board-Package-May-2020.pdf), [July](/ETC-Coop-July-2020-Board-Package.pdf), [August](/ETC-Coop-August-2020-Board-Package.pdf)) between those quarterly reports.

This is an update on what has been happening at the ETC Cooperative this quarter:

- Staffing changes – Yaz, Kevin and Stev.
- ETC suffered three 51% attacks within a month
- Return of Charles Hoskinson and IOHK.
- All the proposals for 51% attack resistance.
- Work begun on 1099 for Besu with Thanos hardfork in November.
- All infrastructure switched to Besu (ethercluster, BlockScout, full and boot nodes)
- Rebooting of grants process deferred. Funding Besu is the new focus.
- Collaboration with IOHK started.
- Comms and Marketing.

See also [ETC Coop Goals And Objectives Q3 2020 Update](/2020-ETC-Coop-Goals-Objectives-Q3-Update.pdf) document, which tracks progress on the goals we set for 2020 [at the AGM](2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance).

The mission of the ETC Coop is to steward the development of the Ethereum Classic protocol and to support the growth of a mature ecosystem around that protocol. There are three pillars to this mission:

- **Accelerate adoption** of ETC technology by individuals and enterprises through effective branding, marketing and education.
- **Foster collaboration** between ecosystem participants including developers, miners, investors, enterprises and end-users.
- **Mature Governance and Transparency** – efficient and transparent governance framework, including use of funds.

Here are some important pages on this website related to transparency:

* [Roadmap](/roadmap) - What are we working on?
* [Governance](/posts/2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance) - How does ETC Coop work?
* [Filings](/filings) - Regulatory filings and other public disclosures
* [People](/people) - Who are we?
