---
id: "2023-01-31-egd-etc-grants-dao-announcement-en"
title: "BITMAIN, ANTPOOL and ETC Cooperative Launch ETC Grants DAO"
author: Andrew Dick
featuredImage: 2023-01-31-bitmain.jpg
tags: [announcement]
---

The ETC Cooperative is very excited to launch the much-anticipated **ETC Grants DAO** with funding from our generous partners at **BITMAIN** and **ANTPOOL**. We've been working diligently behind the scenes with our partners over the last few months to create the ETC Grants DAO process and website. Today we are finally ready to launch the program and begin accepting submissions.

https://etcgrantsdao.io

**What is the ETC Grants DAO?** 

The ETC Grants DAO is a program created by Antpool, Bitmain, and the ETC Cooperative to provide funding for promising projects that will invigorate the Ethereum Classic ecosystem. 

**How much money is available?** 

There is up to $1M USD worth of ETC available to successful applicants in this first round of grants.

**What kind of projects are preferred?** 

Here are some ideas for projects which are likely to be well received, but please take these as suggestions and feel free to bring your own ideas to the table.

* Native stablecoins
* Lending protocols
* Unique and compelling ETC-only dapps
* Novel NFT projects (especially for real-world assets)
* Bridges and interoperability
* Atomic swaps
* L2 scaling solutions

**How much are the grants?**

The maximum funding per team for grants is generally $50,000 unless applying under a community grant (maximum of $10,000) or a premium grant (those over $50,000).

**And what is the timeline for applications？**

The grants process is open for applications starting Tuesday, 31st January 2023. The application process will remain open through February, March and April 2023. 

**And when will the final decisions be made?**

We will announce the final decisions and distribute initial funds in June 2023.

So what are you waiting for? 

Get your team together today and start working on your application today!

 *“I am so excited that the ETC Grants DAO program is finally open for applications!*

 *The ETC Cooperative and our partners at BITMAIN and ANTPOOL have been working on this program for many months, following the announcement of BITMAIN > > and ANTPOOL’s commitment to supporting the ETC ecosystem last July.*

 *I know that many people in the ETC community have been waiting with eager anticipation for this day, and I am delighted that they can now engage with the process.  The Ethereum Classic ecosystem has suffered from under-funding for many years and I can’t wait to see what proposals are brought to the table!”*

- Bob Summerwill, Executive Director, ETC Cooperative

---

To learn more about the EGD please go here: https://etcgrantsdao.io
