---
id: "2018-03-01-announcing-the-etc-cooperative-board-of-advisors"
title: "Announcing the ETC Cooperative Board of Advisors"
author: Anthony Lusardi
featuredImage: etcsummit2017.jpg
tags: [governance]
---

## Announcing the Ethereum Classic Cooperative Board of Advisors

The ETC Cooperative (the “ECC”) was created to financially support the growth and development of Ethereum Classic by funding three key aspects of the ETC ecosystem: development, marketing, and community. To that end the ECC will be improving its management structure by establishing a Board of Advisors (the “BoA”) that will direct ECC funds towards ETC improvements.

The board will consist of 5 advisors: Elaine Ou, Igor Artamonov, Charles Hoskinson, Barry Silbert, and James Wo.

The Board of Advisors will be directing ECC capital towards:

* Development – Supporting existing and funding new projects that benefit ETC
* Marketing – Communicating what ETC is to those interested in blockchain
* Community – Serving the community to encourage a fair and open environment that fosters collaboration

ECC will aid development by filling in gaps where projects are out of scope for our development teams and providing funding to projects that community members want to create.

ECC will improve marketing by communicating ETC’s message and helping newcomers understand the decentralized and open nature of ETC.

ECC will foster community development by making sure the various resources the community uses are well stewarded; this includes websites, social media, forums, and documentation.


## About the Board of Advisors:

**Elaine Ou** is a Blockchain Engineer at Global Financial Access, a fintech company in San Francisco, and an advisor to the ETCDEV team. She can be found alternating between being brutally honest on Twitter and working on her ETC projects (EtherHub, and TokenMint). Her no-nonsense approach will certainly make her an important asset to the BoA.

**Igor Artamanov** is the head of ETCDEV and has been involved in ETC since our very first block after Ethereum forked. In the early days he was crucial to ETC’s survival and today is helping us thrive through his leadership at ETCDEV. ETCDEV is bringing many improvements to the ETC network including Sidechains and an excellent framework for developers. Examples of their work can be seen in Emerald Wallet, and ETC Geth which now has many improvements that Ethereum Geth lacks.

**Charles Hoskinson** helped found Ethereum and later found his way to ETC. He’s been one of our strongest proponents since the start, frequently advocating for ETC whenever he finds himself with a microphone and an audience. On the more practical side he has dedicated developers and resources to ETC through his company IOHK. IOHK has created new software for ETC in the form of Mantis (node software) and Daedulus integration (moving ETC into the de facto Cardano wallet).

**Barry Silbert** is CEO of Digital Currency Group and one of ETC’s earliest proponents, most recently established the ECC.  Barry is also the CEO of Grayscale Investments, the sponsor of the Ethereum Classic Investment Trust.  Ideologically aligned with ETC, he has taken a very hands-off approach which has helped ETC to grow organically with its own direction.

**James Wo** has been a long time fan of ETC and is heavily involved in the blockchain space through his company Digital Finance Group. Based in Shanghai, China, DFG is a diversified business group that focuses on investing in and developing blockchain technologies and digital assets. Its business segments consist of angel investments, venture capital, private equity, strategic investments, mergers and acquisitions.

## Upcoming Announcements

Stay tuned for further announcements from the ECC including: The hiring of additional personnel, creation of a system for funding community-driven projects, a much-needed revamp of the ETC website, and even a few surprise announcements!
