---
id: "2020-04-30-etc-cooperative-q1-2020-transparency-report"
title: "ETC Cooperative Q1 2020 Transparency Report"
author: Bob Summerwill
featuredImage: transparency.png
tags: [governance]
---

We are pleased to announce the release of the
[ETC Cooperative 2020 Q1 Transparency Report](/ETC-Coop-Q1-2020-Report.pdf).

This is an update on what has been happening at the ETC Cooperative since the [2019 Retrospective](./2020-04-13-etc-cooperative-2019-retrospective-released).

- The major event for ETC Cooperative during Q1 was the AGM where months worth of
work on governance came to fruition.
- New website is live, with all those documents and filings available.
- ETC hardforked to Agharta in January.
- We are on track for a successful Phoenix hardfork in June, though that has been a hard
process, with three different rough consensus points and broken testnets on the way.
- ETC Coop now hosting BlockScout for ETC, Mordor and Kotti.
- Connext state channels will be live soon.
- Whiteblock are working on Keccak256 hash algorithm testing.
- Bob and Yaz are now both EEA Vice-Chairs for Technical Spec WG and Testnet WG
respectively.

See also [ETC Coop Goals And Objectives Q1 2020 Update](/ETC-Coop-Goals-And-Objectives-Q1-2020-Update.xlsx) spreadsheet, which tracks progress on the goals we set for 2020 [at the AGM](2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance).

The mission of the ETC Coop is to steward the development of the Ethereum Classic protocol and to support the growth of a mature ecosystem around that protocol. There are three pillars to this mission:

- **Accelerate adoption** of ETC technology by individuals and enterprises through effective branding, marketing and education.
- **Foster collaboration** between ecosystem participants including developers, miners, investors, enterprises and end-users.
- **Mature Governance and Transparency** – efficient and transparent governance framework, including use of funds.

Here are some important pages on this new website created in Q1 2020:

* [Roadmap](/roadmap) - What are we working on?
* [Governance](/posts/2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance) - How does ETC Coop work?
* [Filings](/filings) - Regulatory filings and other public disclosures
* [People](/people) - Who are we?
