---
id: "2023-05-26-pow-summit-2023-speaker-spotlight-en"
title: "POW Summit 2023 Speaker Spotlight"
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: pow-summit-banner.png
tags: [Announcement]
---

We are incredibly excited to host the very best minds in cryptography, privacy, and blockchain technology at our premier event in Prague on September 25-27, 2023. 

Privacy and data security have become paramount concerns in a world increasingly shaped by the digital age. Among the trailblazers who have championed the cause of protecting individuals' privacy is **Phil Zimmermann**, a renowned figure in the field of cryptography. His revolutionary creation, Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), forever changed the landscape of secure communication. 

“When privacy is outlawed, only outlaws will have privacy.” - Phil Zimmermann

In 1991, Zimmermann released Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), a groundbreaking encryption program designed to secure electronic communications. PGP was revolutionary, offering end-to-end encryption that enabled individuals to send private and secure messages over various platforms. Zimmermann's motivation for creating PGP was fueled by his belief that privacy is a fundamental human right, and individuals should have the means to protect their communications from prying eyes.

In the fast-evolving landscape of cryptocurrencies, few individuals have made as significant an impact as **Jameson Lopp**. Renowned for his expertise in Bitcoin, Lopp has become a prominent figure in the industry through his contributions to blockchain security, open-source development, and privacy advocacy. 

His expertise in safeguarding digital assets and developing secure practices has proven invaluable to the community. Lopp's contributions extend beyond his professional endeavors. As a vocal advocate for personal responsibility and self-sovereignty, he has emphasized the importance of individuals controlling their private keys and securing their digital wealth. Through his work and online presence, Lopp has educated countless individuals about the risks and best practices associated with managing cryptocurrencies securely.

As the industry continues to evolve, Lopp's commitment to innovation, education, and personal sovereignty serves as an inspiration to others, shaping the future of cryptocurrencies and the quest for financial freedom.

In the dynamic world of blockchain and cryptocurrency, few individuals have demonstrated the same level of dedication and expertise as **Caitlin Long**. With an extensive background in finance and a deep understanding of blockchain technology, Long has emerged as a leading advocate for the adoption of blockchain in traditional financial systems.

Caitlin Long's contributions to the blockchain industry are nothing short of remarkable. As a champion for regulatory clarity, founder of Avanti Financial, and advocate for financial transformation, she has played a vital role in accelerating the adoption of blockchain technology. Long's vision, expertise, and unwavering commitment to driving positive change in the financial sector make her a true trailblazer and an inspiration for future innovators seeking to revolutionize how we think about money and finance.

We will announce more new speakers in the coming months, so stay tuned by following our POW Twitter, the Litecoin Foundation, or the ETC Cooperative.

---

**Thank you for reading this article!**

To learn more about the ETC Cooperative go to:  [https://etccooperative.org](https://etccooperative.org/)

To learn more about ETC go to:  [https://ethereumclassic.org](https://ethereumclassic.org/)
