---
id: "2022-11-04-etc-cooperative-is-attending-the-world-digital-mining-summit-wdms-cn"
title: "ETC Cooperative Is Attending the World Digital Mining Summit (WDMS)"
date: 2022-11-04
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: bob-wdms.jpeg
tags: [events]
---

We are very pleased to announce that ETC Cooperative Executive Director, Bob Summerwill, will be attending and speaking at the World Digital Mining Summit (WDMS) between November 8th and 10th of 2022 organized by BITMAIN, the world's leading manufacturer of cryptocurrency mining servers.

Bob will give an Ethereum Classic overview talk that will cover the following topics:

1. How ETC became the largest proof of work smart contracts blockchain in the world: A brief history of Ethereum's split from Ethereum Classic, Ethereum's merge and migration to Proof of Stake, the failed attempt by Ethereum-PoW to perpetuate Ethereum 1.0, and ETC's current #1 position.

2. How ETC's principles and "Code Is Law" philosophy guarantees that it will remain a proof of work blockchain: Proof of work Nakamoto consensus is the most secure consensus mechanism in the world. This affirms the properties of decentralization, censorship resistance, permissionlessness, and immutability. Together these features form the basis and reality of the "Code Is Law" motto.

3. Mining ETC: A brief overview of the AntPool mining pool, the ETC Hash algorithm, GPUs and ASICs operating in ETC, hash rate evolution, how price will follow and outperform Bitcoin, and consequent miner profitability. 

BITMAIN, through its subsidiary AntPool, a world leading mining pool company, has invested $10 million to support the Ethereum Classic ecosystem, as it is now the largest proof of work blockchain in the ETH Hash and ETC Hash segment.

ETC Cooperative is very happy to participate and share our insights with such strong ETC supporters and the great audience of miners and blockchain enthusiasts at the WDMS event.

///
