---
id: "2020-05-22-etc-cooperative-april-2020-report"
title: "ETC Cooperative April 2020 report"
author: Bob Summerwill
featuredImage: April2020.png
tags: [governance]
---

We are pleased to announce the release of the [ETC Cooperative April 2020 Report](/ETC-Coop-Board-Package-April-2020.pdf).

This is an update on what has been happening at the ETC Cooperative since the [Q1 2020 Transparency Report](./2020-04-30-etc-cooperative-q1-2020-transparency-report).

## Summary

- April was the month where we “caught up” with our reporting backlog,
publishing both the 2019 Retrospective and Q1 2020 transparency
reports.
- Work towards the Phoenix hardfork in early June remains on track.
- Our various development and infrastructure projects continued, with
updates in the remainder of this presentation.
- Preparing for Consensus: Distributed event, which will be covered in
the May board pack.

## Mission

The mission of the ETC Coop is to steward the development of the Ethereum Classic protocol and to support the growth of a mature ecosystem around that protocol. There are three pillars to this mission:

- **Accelerate adoption** of ETC technology by individuals and enterprises through effective branding, marketing and education.
- **Foster collaboration** between ecosystem participants including developers, miners, investors, enterprises and end-users.
- **Mature Governance and Transparency** – efficient and transparent governance framework, including use of funds.

Here are some important pages on this new website created in Q1 2020:

* [Roadmap](/roadmap) - What are we working on?
* [Governance](/posts/2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance) - How does ETC Coop work?
* [Filings](/filings) - Regulatory filings and other public disclosures
* [People](/people) - Who are we?
