---
id: "2023-07-21-pow-summit-2023-speaker-spotlight-7-en"
title: "POW Summit 2023 Speaker Spotlight #7"
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: speaker-ann-7.png
tags: [Announcement]
---

Prepare to be inspired! The Proof-of-Work Summit 2023 is continuing to assemble an incredible lineup of thought leaders and industry experts from the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. Among the exciting speakers headlining the event are **Mario Havel, David Schwartz, and Taras Kulyk**. Let's take a closer look at these fascinating individuals and what they have to offer at the upcoming summit.

Meet **Mario Havel**, a true pioneer in the world of decentralized technologies. As a protocol supporter and researcher with the Ethereum Foundation, Mario has been actively involved in promoting open-source protocols and blockchain advancements. Besides his pivotal role at the Ethereum Foundation, he is also the co-founder of Bordel Hackerspace, a community-driven initiative fostering collaboration and innovation. Mario has dedicated his time to educating communities in various cities like Bratislava, Prague, and Barcelona. Through his insightful talks and workshops, he has been instrumental in inspiring people to contribute to the Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) ecosystems, creating a more inclusive and robust digital future.

**David Schwartz** is a prominent figure in the blockchain and cryptocurrency space. As the Director of Strategic Partnerships at the Litecoin Foundation, David plays a key role in forging partnerships with major players in the industry, including BitPay, UFC, and the Miami Dolphins.

Impressively, David brings with him a wealth of experience beyond the crypto world. A 20-year military veteran, he has served in both the US Army and Air Force. His multifaceted background reflects a unique perspective that will undoubtedly enrich his talk at POW Summit 2023.

**Taras Kulyk**, the Founder and CEO of SunnySideAsics, is a leading expert in the fields of digital mining, fintech, and capital markets. With extensive global experience, Taras has been at the forefront of technological advancements in the mining industry. His vision and expertise have contributed significantly to the growth and success of various ventures.

Previously, Taras held pivotal positions such as Senior Vice President of Finance/Growth at Validus Power and Senior Vice President of Growth at Core Scientific. At POW Summit 2023, Taras will share his valuable insights and experiences, providing attendees with a deeper understanding of the evolving mining landscape.

The excitement is building as the POW Summit 2023 approaches. We can't wait to hear from these outstanding speakers, and the best part is, there are more announcements on the way! Stay tuned for updates and more fascinating personalities joining the event.

Make sure to stay up to date with all the latest news by following our [POW Twitter](https://twitter.com/PowSummit), the [Litecoin Foundation](https://www.litecoin.net/), or the [ETC Cooperative](https://etccooperative.org/).

Mark your calendars for this not-to-be-missed event, and join us in September for a groundbreaking and inspiring POW Summit 2023!

---

**Thank you for reading this article!**

To learn more about the ETC Cooperative go to: https://etccooperative.org

To learn more about ETC go to: https://ethereumclassic.org
