---
id: "2022-11-23-the-etc-cooperatives-communications-plan-en"
title: "The ETC Cooperative's Communications Plan"
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: etc-cooperative-comms-plan.png
tags: [communications]
---

The ETC Cooperative [announced](https://etccooperative.org/posts/2022-11-15-announcing-the-new-etc-cooperative-communications-team-en) this month the formation of our new communications team. The team's purpose is to support and promote Ethereum Classic as well as to keep the ecosystem informed about the ETC Cooperative's projects, finances, and governance. 

In the next sections we will explain what is our plan to help achieve these objectives. 

## 1. Mission

The mission of the ETC Cooperative is to steward the development of the Ethereum Classic protocol and to support the growth of a mature ecosystem around that protocol. 

There are three pillars to this mission:

1. Accelerate adoption of ETC technology by individuals and enterprises through effective branding, marketing, and education.
2. Foster collaboration between ecosystem participants including developers, miners, investors, enterprises, and end-users.
3. Mature governance and transparency – an efficient and transparent governance framework, including use of funds.


## 2. Goals

To measure in the long term the results and effectiveness of our work promoting Ethereum Classic we have defined hash rate and usership growth as our main quantifiable goals:

**ETC hash rate growth:** This goal is measured by [hash rate](https://2miners.com/etc-network-hashrate) and is a strong indication of security of the network. As security is the primary goal of proof of work blockchains, then we assume that from this base, all the other positive metrics will emerge.

**ETC usership growth:** If Ethereum Classic is secure through hash rate, then we assume that usership will follow, and that usership is a function of utility. This goal will be measured by metrics such as [transactions](https://bitinfocharts.com/comparison/etc-transactions.html#3y) per day, [fees]() paid to miners, and [node count](https://etcnodes.org/).

## 3. Targets and Calls to Action

As stated above, we have two major goals of increasing hash rate and increasing usership of Ethereum Classic. However, we have defined three target segments to direct our communications efforts. 

In the case of usership, not only do we seek for end users and the public in general to adopt ETC for day-to-day payments, dapp use, and storage of value, but we will promote it also among dapp developers and builders.

For the increase of hash rate we will direct our efforts to miners.

The calls to action to our targets will be simple and straight forward:

**Users:** "Use ETC for immutable payments, dapps, and storage of value."

**Developers:** "Build highly secure solutions and unstoppable dapps on ETC." 

**Miners:** "Mine on ETC to take advantage of its long term profitability."

## 4. Brand Story

As Ethereum Classic is the main focus of our communications work, the ETC Cooperative's messaging will be kept on a lower key, more administrative, and operational.

ETC's messaging will be promotional, selling the attributes of Ethereum Classic, while inviting the world to use it, developers to build on it, and miners to mine on it.

The messaging around ETC will concentrate on the following categories:

### 4.1. ETC Pillars

We will focus on the following fundamental pillars of Ethereum Classic's design:

**Proof of Work:** ETC uses Proof of Work Nakamoto consensus which is the most secure consensus mechanism, therefore the only system that delivers the true benefits of ***trust minimization***.

**Smart Contracts:** ETC supports smart contracts, therefore is ***programmable***, making it much more useful than other top proof of work blockchains in the industry.

**Fixed Monetary Policy:** ETC has a capped and predictable coin supply schedule, that is only issued upon proof of work block creation, trending in the long term to a zero rate of inflation, making it analogous to gold in the real world, therefore ***programmable digital gold***. 

### 4.2. ETC Values

We will focus on the following values of ETC's philosophy that are summarized in the motto ***Code Is Law***:

**Decentralization:** Proof of Work enables all miners and node operators to participate in the blockchain network and reach consensus in their complete isolation, with not central control, direction, nor supervision.  

**Immutability:** Users, developers, and miners can rest assured that their accounts, balances, property, agreements, dapps, blocks, and transactions on ETC will remain final, unmodified, and untampered forever. 

**Censorship Resistance:** Users, developers, and miners can rest assured that their dealings and activity on the ETC network will be free from censorship and arbitrary controls.

**Permissionlessness:** Users, developers, and miners can rest assured that their participation, exit, and entry into the ETC network will be free from permissions, supervision, barriers, or central controls.

We will communicate the above values separately, together, or as a single concept in the motto ***Code Is Law*** when appropriate.  

### 4.3. Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake

The differences between proof of work consensus and proof of stake imposed state are key to understanding why ETC is superior as the largest proof of work smart contracts blockchain in the world.

To communicate this we will constantly and repeatedly explain the true principles, attributes, and decentralization of proof of work systems and how proof of stake is really a centralized and censorable mechanism with no true innovation. 

### 4.4. The Bitcoin and Ethereum Analogy

One of the most successful tag lines and drivers of growth in the Ethereum Classic ecosystem has been ***ETC is BTC philosophy with ETH technology.***

This means that Ethereum Classic shares the same deep values of security, decentralization, and immutability as Bitcoin, but has the same programmability, functionality, and utility as Ethereum.

Because this puts ETC in a clear advantage, we will continue to press on this concept and explain in detail why this phrase is absolutely true.

## 5. Functions

Our team will divide its activities in the following five functions:

### 5.1. Marketing

There will be a definition of the Ethereum Classic brand and story along the lines described above, as well as brand and customer personas. The marketing master plan will also define the channels, platforms, tools, and social media and editorial workflows.

Part of the program will include the identification of ETC evangelists and allies, paid advertising, selection of media outlets, and setting short term, medium term, and long term goals, targets and KPIs.

### 5.2. Editorial

The editorial plan will focus on the production of the following content units:

**Videos**

Videos will be produced covering ETC key topics with independent video units or accompanying related articles. Some videos will also be produced to communicate ETC Cooperative specific messages. 

**Articles**

Articles will be produced covering ETC key topics, sometimes with accompanying video units. Some articles will also be produced to communicate ETC Cooperative specific messages.

**Live Streams and ETC Community Calls**

We will participate in all ETC Community calls organized by the ecosystem and will conduct other live streams touching on ETC and ETC Cooperative key topics.

**Community Tweets**

We will contribute original tweets to the Twitter Together GitHub flow for the [@eth_classic](https://github.com/ethereumclassic/tweets-eth_classic) and [@etc_network](https://github.com/ethereumclassic/tweets-etc_network) twitter accounts.

### 5.3. Social Media

All activity directed to support Ethereum Classic or to communicate the ETC Cooperative's activities will be promoted on social media platforms (Twitter, Telegram, LinkedIn, Reddit, Discord, newsletters, etc.). 

### 5.4. Events

After a pause since 2019 due to COVID-19 and other issues, the ETC Cooperative will restart the events calendar in 2023 with summits and conferences dedicated to Ethereum Classic and related key topics. 

### 5.5. Website

The whole ETC Cooperative website will be revamped with new imagery, style, and messaging.

## 6. Channels

Channels are the online platforms that we will use to communicate and deliver our messaging to our target audience. These may be divided into two entities: The community shared channels and the ETC Cooperative controlled ones. 

We will actively participate in the community channels contributing content and participation and we will use the ETC Cooperative channels for its specific communications.

Following is a description of each channel by entity:

### 6.1. ETC Community Channels

**Community Website Blog**

The community website is [ethereumclassic.org](https://ethereumclassic.org/) and we will be contributing videos, articles, ideas, and static content when necessary.

**Community YouTube Channel**

As there was no canonical YouTube channel for the ETC community, so we created a new one called [Ethereum Classic Updates](https://www.youtube.com/@etcupdates) where we will post all our independent video units and videos that accompany written articles.  

**Community Twitter Accounts**

As stated above, we will contribute original messages to the two community Twitter accounts [@eth_classic](https://github.com/ethereumclassic/tweets-eth_classic) and [@etc_network](https://github.com/ethereumclassic/tweets-etc_network).

**Community Discord Server**

We will post all our social media messages on the ETC community [Discord server](https://ethereumclassic.org/discord) and continue participating as community members.

### 6.2. ETC Cooperative Channels

**ETC Cooperative Blog**

All communications pertaining to the ETC Cooperative's announcements, activity, governance, and finances will bee posted on its [blog](https://etccooperative.org/posts/page/1). 

**ETC Cooperative YouTube Channel**

Videos with explanations, reports, interviews, or other ETC Cooperative specific content will be posted on its [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@ETCCooperative).

**ETC Cooperative Twitter Account**

The ETC Cooperative [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/ETCCooperative) will continue promoting ETC and posting its articles and videos.

**ETC Cooperative Discord Server**

The ETC Cooperative [Discord server](https://discord.gg/5wDyd6u6pU) will continue posting its articles and videos and interacting with server members as usual.

---

**Thank you for reading this article!**

To learn more about the ETC Cooperative go to:  [https://etccooperative.org](https://etccooperative.org/)

To learn more about ETC go to:  [https://ethereumclassic.org](https://ethereumclassic.org/)
