---
id: "2023-07-24-presenting-first-round-etc-grants-dao-winner-patient-money-en"
title: "Presenting First Round ETC Grants DAO Winner Patient Money"
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: patient-money-banner.png
tags: [Announcement]
---

We are happy to present Selorm Dzaka's [Patient Money](https://www.youtube.com/@PatientMoney) YouTube channel as one of the winners of the first round of the ETC Grants DAO program!

---

**You can watch this interview here:**

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6Bthj81Mcl4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

In our video interview, we spoke about the following topics:

- Team description
- What is the project?
- Grant amount
- Why did Patient Money choose Ethereum Classic?

Stay tuned for more interviews and presentations of our winners!

## This is the transcription of the interview:

Donald McIntyre (DM): Hi, I am Donald McIntyre senior editor at the ETC Cooperative. We're going to talk about the ETC Grants DAO program and today we have one of the winners of one of the grants, Selorm Dzaka, hello Selorm, how are you?

Selorm Dzaka (SDz): Hello, I'm good. How are you doing?

DM: Very well thank you. Ok, the idea today is to talk about your team and your project, but first congratulations for winning one of the grants.

SDz: Thank you, thank you, thank you! I did put in a couple of applications and, you know, I'm grateful I got this one. I would have loved to get all of them, but I'm grateful I got this one. So, we'll go from there.

DM:  I'm very happy. You're a very important person in the Ethereum Classic ecosystem. Can you tell me first about your team?

SDz: Yes. So, for patient money that's just my YouTube channel, personal channel, that in the pandemic I started making videos about stocks and different crypto and if you go back and look on my my channel I did a lot of live sessions back in the day when DogeCoin was exploding and so I got a lot of people in the space. And, then I found Ethereum Classic, and I just like the values of Ethereum Classic. And, I was thinking about building on it so I started doing a lot of content around Ethereum Classic as well.

DM: When did you start covering Ethereum Classic on the YouTube channel?

SDz: On the YouTube channel I would say a little about two and a half years ago, about two and a half years ago, yes.

DM:  And, which is the project that won the grant?

SDZ: It's the Patient Money YouTube channel that won the grant.

DM:  Ok.

SDz: So, for that we I applied for the Patient Money YouTube channel and the Classic Rewards.

DM: Ok. Classic Rewards is the other game.

SDz: Yes. Classic Rewards is a strategy game, and your cards, your characters in the game, are NFTs, which are on ETC and Binance, it's a cross-chain game, but you can just play from one chain as well. And, that did not get funded but we are still going to keep pushing on. We have different ideas to generate funds to keep the project going.

DM: Yeah, there's gonna be other rounds so you can... 

SDz: Exactly.

DM: You can learn of this experience, but now the good thing is that you earned a grant for Patient Money, your YouTube channel. How much did you earn?

SDz: So, yes. For patient money I think it's 10 000 US Dollars. I know it's going to be paid in ETC. 

DM: So, it can be a lot more! (laugh) 

SDz: Hopefully, hopefully. 

DM: Why did you choose Ethereum Classic for both projects? To work on Ethereum Classic. Why are you dedicating time to Ethereum Classic? If I remember correctly, you're also a miner of Ethereum Classic! 

SDz: Yes. So, the reason why I chose Ethereum Classic was just, you know, when I was looking around in the blockchain space, the one programmable blockchain that closely resembled Bitcoin, but had real world utility, and that could be built upon, was Ethereum Classic. Having a fixed [monetary policy], being a programmable network as well, being immutable. Those are values, core values of a blockchain, and I think Ethereum Classic provided that. And, I also like underdog stories because a lot of people push Ethereum Classic to the side because of some of the, the 51 attacks that have happened in the past, but but those who know, know how hard it is for it to happen again. Yeah, almost impossible at this point, so it's a good underdog story, and I think it's a good time to slowly build and then wait for the bull market to come. 

DM: Excellent. Thank you very much for your time and congratulations for winning this grant of ten thousand dollars for Patient Money, Selorm, thank you very much! 

SDz: Thank you very much Donald! Goodbye. All right, goodbye.

---

**Thank you for reading this article!**

To see the full list of winners go here: [https://etcgrants.softr.app/projects-list-en](https://etcgrants.softr.app/projects-list-en)

To learn more about the ETC Cooperative go to:  [https://etccooperative.org](https://etccooperative.org/)

To learn more about ETC go to:  [https://ethereumclassic.org](https://ethereumclassic.org/)
