---
id: "2023-06-30-q1-report-en"
title: "ETC Cooperative 2023 Q1 Report"
author: Donald McIntyre
featuredImage: q1-2023-report-banner.png
tags: [governance]
---

We are pleased to share [ETC Cooperative's Board Package for Q1](https://etccooperative.org/etc-cooperative-q1-2023-en.pdf).

Highlights:

 - The [ETC Grants DAO](https://etcgrantsdao.io/) program was launched on January 31st with up to $1M USD worth of ETC to successful applicants. 
 - Core-Geth: During Q1 the Coop made two new releases for the Core-Geth client, [1.12.9](https://github.com/etclabscore/core-geth/releases/tag/v1.12.9) (which merges Ethereum Foundation Geth client 1.10.26) and [1.12.10](https://github.com/etclabscore/core-geth/releases/tag/v1.12.10). The decision was made to port our work on the Parity-compatible call tracer. This newly developed tracer, known as the "flat call tracer," is now available in Geth.
 - The Hypedledger Besu: Although the Cooperative has withdrawn its support to the development of this client, it will make a best effort to keep consensus compatibility for the future.
 - DappNode: We published official DappNode packages for the ETC mainnet and testnet.
 - Addressed ETH Zurich's [disclosed vulnerabilities](https://etccooperative.org/posts/2023-05-15-addressing-practical-attacks-on-core-geth-synchronising-nodes-by-taverna-and-paterson-en): Security researchers Professor Kenny Paterson and Massimiliano Taverna from ETH Zurich contacted us to disclose their research findings regarding a legitimate vulnerability. Their patches were introduced into Core-Geth.
 - The marketing and communications team worked on the Grants DAO program, a rebrand of the ETC Cooperative, the editorial calendar, and active promotion on social media.
 - There was a debanking effort of crypto companies and organizations in the US. The ETC Cooperative did all its banking with Signature Bank and was not included in the clients taken over by Flagstaff Bank. However, the Coop was ultimately able to find a new banking partner. 
 - Ended March of 2023 with liquid assets, including cash plus $ETC, of over $4.3M USD.
 - Budgeted spending was $370K USD to the end of Q1 and actual spending was $368K USD.

Here are the previous three reports released in 2023/22:

 - [ETC Coop 2022 Retrospective](./2023-05-18-the-etc-cooperative-2022-retrospective-report-en)
 - [ETC Coop 2023 Goals](./2023-05-19-the-etc-cooperative-goals-budget-and-AGM-reports-2023-en)
 - [ETC Coop 2022 Q3 Report](./2022-11-17-q3-report-en)

Also, see the [Filings page](/filings) which lists all of incorporation documents, resolutions, IRS filings and other transparency reports.
