---
id: "2021-09-17-withdraws-support-for-ecip-1098"
title: "ETC Cooperative withdraws support for ECIP-1098"
author: Bob Summerwill 
featuredImage: proto-treasury.png
tags: [governance]
---

**TL;DR**

The ETC Cooperative is withdrawing its support for the [ECIP-1098 Treasury
proposal](https://ecips.ethereumclassic.org/ECIPs/ecip-1098).

**Why?**

We spent many months collaborating with IOHK on reworking the published
proposal.  It became apparent over time that IOHK's vision of a treasury was sharply at odds with our expectations.

The final straw was over the “sweeping mechanism” which Bob had proposed.
Unspent client team funds would be swept forward into the community grants
pool.  That mechanism was intended to ensure that differences in spending across client teams, or excesses of funding due to rising ETC prices would not end up as
excessive private profit for the client teams.

That mechanism was unacceptable to IOHK but was a "must have" for ETC Cooperative.

Without adequate systems in place to ensure transparency, accountability and ultimately a capped profit margin, the treasury system that IOHK desired
was never going to be accepted by the community and with valid reason.

Chris Hitchcott just wrote [an excellent article](https://www.ethereumclassicclassic.org/)
summarizing anti-treasury arguments along with commentary on how badly a contentious chain-split might play out.  It is very long, but well worth the time to read, or at least to skim.

**Why consider protocol intrinsic funding in the first place?**

Currently, all of the funding for ETC protocol and ecosystem development is protocol extrinsic funding from Grayscale and DFG.  That funding is fragile.
The Coop only has an agreement with Grayscale until April 2022 and we are working on the assumption that funding will be discontinued at that time.
The scope of work funded by DFG has shrunk down to a few individuals
working on Core-Geth.

Unlike Bitcoin, which could likely be run pretty much “as is” in perpetuity, the Ethereum protocol and codebases are in need of major rework to be sustainable in the long-term (which is why so much work has been taking place for years in the run-up to ETH2).  State bloat alone means that the current client software is unsustainable in the long-term. Perhaps Erigon (formerly TurboGeth) has some answers?  Perhaps ETC will be able to benefit from those.  The existing ETC client teams would certainly not be able to research and develop such major changes on their own.

**What if NO treasury proposal can be made to fly?**

The Coop has sufficient funding to continue our work, even with a more robust roadmap and program, due to the higher ETC prices over the last few months. However, it would not be sustainable in the long term because there may be no further funds incoming after April 2022.

In the absence of a protocol-level treasury the ETC Cooperative itself could have an ongoing grants program using some of those reserve funds, but it would be orders of magnitude smaller than any protocol intrinsic grants program. The program could only continue until those funds ran out, and then both the grants program and the ETC Cooperative itself would come to a close. Would that be the most productive use for those funds? That is unclear.

Core-Geth is used by 96% of node operators, therefore needs to continue operations indefinitely. ***There is also -------blah blah technical work explanation.***
 
If DFG ever discontinues funding Core-Geth, then the ETC Cooperative would become “last man standing” for all ETC funding needs, which is not practical from a cost perspective nor decentralized in any way.

**The outlook for ETC**

To be clear, whatever happens, ETC Cooperative sees a bright future for the
ETC protocol, irrespective of the fate of any of the current real world entities
within the ETC ecosystem (ourselves included).  To quote an individual who has been around since the project's earliest days:

*"ETC is a cockroach, in the best possible ways"*

***I would talk more in this section about ETH moving to proof of stake and what that could mean for ETC in terms of potential opportunities. I would also talk about how to move forward from here with the community. Right now ETC is just a philosophy. How does it actually become useful technically?***

**Transparency**

Throughout this process with ECIP-1098, our worst failing was that discussions happened behind closed doors for far too long.  That process began with good intentions - to revamp the proposal into a healthy state which
would address the many concerns which had clearly been communicated.  It was
self-evident that the proposal as originally published needed lots of iteration before it stood any chance of adoption.  Unfortunately that process dragged on for months and the proposal never got to a state where it was ready for release
so we never got to the productive public discussion which we hoped to enable.

We apologize for our part in this sequence of events.  The outcome
was sharply at-odds with the transparency which is a core value of the
ETC Cooperative (as evidenced by our regular reporting and general conduct),
therefore we will work to ensure that future proposals follow a more
transparent and open process.
