---
id: "2020-04-13-etc-cooperative-2019-retrospective-released"
title: "ETC Cooperative 2019 Retrospective released"
author: Bob Summerwill
featuredImage: retrospective.png
tags: [governance]
---

We are pleased to announce the release of the
[ETC Cooperative 2019 Retrospective](/ETC-Coop-2019-Retrospective-April-13-2020.pdf), the most detailed transparency report to date from the ETC Cooperative, clocking in at 46 pages.  It was a very successful year for ETC and for the ETC Cooperative, with a big shift in perception about ETC and lots of forward progress on the protocol and surrounding infrastructure.

During 2018 we released shorter [mid-year review](/Mid-Year-Review-Jan-to-June-2018.pdf) and
[end-of-year report](/End-of-Year-Review-July-to-December-2018.pdf).  This detailed report covers the whole of 2019.   We plan to publish short quarterly updates moving forward, plus detailed annual retrospectives in this format.

The mission of the ETC Coop is to steward the development of the Ethereum Classic protocol and to support the growth of a mature ecosystem around that protocol. There are three pillars to this mission:

- **Accelerate adoption** of ETC technology by individuals and enterprises through effective branding, marketing and education.
- **Foster collaboration** between ecosystem participants including developers, miners, investors, enterprises and end-users.
- **Mature Governance and Transparency** – efficient and transparent governance framework, including use of funds.

This retrospective is another product of the revamp of the ETC Cooperative's governance and transparency which was put in place at the [Annual General Meeting](/posts/2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance) held on 17th March 2020.

Here are some important pages on this new website created at that time:

* [Roadmap](/roadmap) - What are we working on?
* [Governance](/posts/2020-03-17-etc-cooperative-agm-2020-new-governance) - How does ETC Coop work?
* [Filings](/filings) - Regulatory filings and other public disclosures
* [People](/people) - Who are we?
